Restaging 52 (#4560)
EnterpriseDB/docs: product_docs/docs/pgd/5/parallelapply.mdx

Parallel Apply is a feature of PGD that allows a PGD node to use multiple writers per subscription. This behavior generally increases the throughput of a subscription and improves replication performance.

When Parallel Apply is operating, the transactional changes from the subscription are written by multiple writers. However, each writer ensures that the final commit of its transaction doesn't violate the commit order as executed on the origin node. If there's a violation, an error is generated and the transaction can be rolled back.

This mechanism has previously meant that if a transaction is pending commit and modifies a row that another transaction needs to change, and that other transaction executed on the origin node before the pending transaction did, then the resulting error could manifest itself as a deadlock if the pending transaction has taken out a lock request. 

Additionally, handling the error could increase replication lag, due to a combination of the time taken to detect the deadlock, the time taken for the client to rollback its transaction, the time taken for indirect garbage collection of the already applied changes, and the time taken to redo the work. 

> This is where Parallel Apply’s deadlock mitigation, introduced in PGD 5.2, comes into play. For any transaction, Parallel Apply now looks at upcoming writes, and where there is a potential conflict, places the transaction on hold until the conflict has passed.

Author: No, upcoming. This is the Prescient PA which does look ahead. There's a whole complexity of hold-off conditions and releases and none of it is useful if we are trying to keep the docs readable with less explicit detail.

> This is where Parallel Apply’s deadlock mitigation, introduced in PGD 5.2, comes into play. For any transaction, Parallel Apply now looks at upcoming writes, and where there is a potential conflict, places the transaction on hold until the conflict has passed.

Author: Resolving - will return to in post review.

This configuration gives each subscription two writers. However, in some circumstances, the system might allocate up to 8 writers for a subscription.

You can only change [`bdr.max_writers_per_subscription`](/pgd/latest/reference/pgd-settings#bdrmax_writers_per_subscription) with a server restart.

You can change [`bdr.writers_per_subscription`](/pgd/latest/reference/pgd-settings#bdrwriters_per_subscription) for a specific subscription, without a restart by:

1. Halting the subscription using [`bdr.alter_subscription_disable`](/pgd/latest/reference/nodes-management-interfaces#bdralter_subscription_disable).
1. Setting the new value.

> 1. Resuming the subscription using [`bdr.alter_subscription_enable`](/pgd/latest/reference/nodes-management-interfaces#bdralter_subscription_enable). 

Author: Yes, by definition. This is a change to low level handling of a subscription, so it needs to be halted.

### When to use Parallel Apply

Parallel Apply is always on by default and, for most operations, we recommend that it's left on.

> From PGD 5.2, Parallel Apply works with CAMO. It is not compatible with Group Commit or eager replication and should be disabled if Group Commit or eager replication are in use. 

Author: ```suggestion
From PGD 5.2, Parallel Apply works with CAMO. It is not compatible with Group Commit or Eager Replication and should be disabled if Group Commit or Eager Replication are in use. 
```

> Up to at least PGD 5.1, Parallel Apply should not be used with Group Commit, CAMO and eager replication. You should disable Parallel Apply in these scenarios. If you are experiencing a large number of deadlocks, you may also want to disable it.

Author: Not in 5.1 and earlier AFAIK.

> Up to at least PGD 5.1, Parallel Apply should not be used with Group Commit, CAMO and eager replication. You should disable Parallel Apply in these scenarios. If you are experiencing a large number of deadlocks, you may also want to disable it.

Author: ```suggestion
Up to and including PGD 5.1, Parallel Apply should not be used with Group Commit, CAMO and eager replication. You should disable Parallel Apply in these scenarios. If, using PGD 5.1, you are experiencing a large number of deadlocks, you may also want to disable Parallel Apply or consider upgrading.
```

### Monitoring Parallel Apply

To support Parallel Apply's deadlock mitigation, PGD 5.2 adds columns to [`bdr.stat_subscription`](/pgd/latest/reference/catalogs-visible#bdrstat_subscription). The new columns are `nprovisional_waits`, `ntuple_waits` and `ncommmit_waits`. The `nprovisional_waits` value reflects the number of operations on the same tuples being performed by concurrent apply transactions. These are provisional waits which aren't actually waiting yet but could. 

> If apply operations are affected by the deadlock mitigation measures, they will wait until they can be safely applied and are counted in `ntuple_waits`. Fully applied transactions which waited before being committed are counted in `ncommit_waits`. 

Author: There are no numbers to denote good or bad. This is all I have got from dev.

> ### Disabling Parallel Apply

Author: It's there to cover it being added. AFAIK we don't have to data to evaluate what is good or bad in this and the answer is likely neither. These are counts of how *well* the deadlock mitigation is working.

> ### Disabling Parallel Apply

Author: Suggesting 

```
To support Parallel Apply's deadlock mitigation, PGD 5.2 adds columns to [`bdr.stat_subscription`](/pgd/latest/reference/catalogs-visible#bdrstat_subscription). These new columns provide statistics 
on how active the deadlock mitigation feature is.

The new columns are `nprovisional_waits`, `ntuple_waits` and `ncommmit_waits`. 

The `nprovisional_waits` value reflects the number of operations on the same tuples being performed by concurrent apply transactions. These are provisional waits which aren't actually waiting yet but could. If apply operations are affected by the deadlock mitigation measures, they will wait until they can be safely applied and are counted in `ntuple_waits`. Fully applied transactions which waited before being committed are counted in `ncommit_waits`. 
```
